[DOCU-2089] Add Requests page and update contributing guidelines (#74)
Kong/insomnia-docs: docs/insomnia/requests.md

---
layout: article-detail
title:  Requests
category: "Requests and Responses"
category-url: requests-and-responses
---

> Insomnia supports sending requests via [HTTP method](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Methods), [gRPC](https://grpc.io/docs), and [GraphQL](https://graphql.org).

Reviewer: I won't comment everywhere it's repeated, but should this just be "requests via HTTP", and "HTTP request", instead of "HTTP _method_"? HTTP Method is just a specific part of the HTTP protocol. 

I'm not certain what the wording should be here but it seemed odd at first glance

Author: That makes sense, however, for the sentence structure to make sense (I'm listing HTTP, gRPC, and GraphQL), I opted for this.

To learn how to repurpose parts of your request, see
[Environment Variables](/insomnia/environment-variables).

## Send an HTTP method request

Send an HTTP method request in a Document or Collection. The following instructions
assume you're starting with an empty Document or Collection.

In addition to standard HTTP methods, Insomnia supports [Custom HTTP Methods](#custom-http-methods).

1. In a Document, select the **Debug** tab, then **New Request**. In a Collection, select **New Request**.
1. In the **New Request** modal:
   1. Enter a request name.
   1. Select a method from the dropdown.
   1. Click **Create**.
1. Enter the API URL in the request URL input.
1. To add authentication, go to the **Auth** tab. Use the **Auth** dropdown to select your authentication method.
1. When you have entered your request URL and authentication, click **Send**.

See [Request Options](#request-options) to customize your request.

> ## Send a gRPC request

Reviewer: I suggest having the order of sections be:

* Send an HTTP request
	* Custom HTTP methods
	* Request Options
* Send a GraphQL request
* Send a gRPC request
	* gRPC request options

This is because GraphQL is very similar to HTTP, especially in the Insomnia UI but also in practice GraphQL is built on top of the same protocol. gRPC however is entirely separate.

Send a gRPC method request in a Document or Collection. The following instructions
assume you're starting with an empty Document or Collection.

1. In a Document, select the **Debug** tab, then **New Request**. In a Collection, select **New Request**.
1. In the **New Request** modal:
   1. Enter a request name.
   1. Select **gRPC** from the dropdown.
   1. Click **Create**.
1. You'll be taken to a **Select Proto File** modal.
1. Click **Add Directory** or **Add Proto File**.
1. Add your directory or upload your Proto File. Insomnia will automatically detect the streaming types and modify the first tab as such.

> 1. Enter your API URL and click **Start**.

Reviewer: The button could be "Start" or "Send", depending on the streaming type. You can get an example protofile from `https://grpcb.in/` to experiment with (the `hello.proto` one is great). Alternatively, it's also part of the Insomnia Testing project, inside the gRPC collection.

Also, users need to select a method to use from the dropdown next to the URL.

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4312346/146468060-aada048f-b3fc-403f-9df5-b42e083e096a.png)

Reviewer: Is it worth noting how to send client streaming and Bidirectional streaming requests? Because these have extra steps: https://www.loom.com/share/1a287dcb26e44b01a326d3eafb840d84

Author: Yes, let's do that in a future iteration.

See [gRPC Request Options](#grpc-request-options) to customize your request.

> ## gRPC Request Options

Reviewer 2: I'm not entirely sure here, but should this header be a sub-header of the `Send a gRPC request` one?
```suggestion
### gRPC Request Options
```

Modify any gRPC request with the following options.

{:.table .table-striped}
Option | Description
------ | ------------
*Streaming Type* <small>Example: `Unary`</small> | The body of the request. The tab displays the streaming type, auto-detected from the Proto File or directory.<br><br>Streaming types are: Unary, Server Streaming, Client Streaming, and Bidirectional Streaming.

> Headers | Add a header to your request. For example, `Content-Type: application/grpc`.

Reviewer: The option currently says "Headers", but it should say "Metadata". What we're doing is giving the option for users to add [Metadata](https://grpc.io/docs/what-is-grpc/core-concepts/#metadata) to the request.

We could also link to the gRPC docs for the [streaming type](https://grpc.io/docs/what-is-grpc/core-concepts/#rpc-life-cycle) and the Metadata, what do you think?

```suggestion
Headers | Add gRPC Metadata to your request. For example, `Content-Type: application/grpc`.
```

Author: I'm going to stick with "Headers" since that's what the UI has. However, we can change it in the UI if you think that makes sense. Let me know and we can create a Linear task.

<img width="1167" alt="Screen Shot 2022-01-03 at 10 39 08 AM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/22301405/147967074-7f94a022-7511-43d3-b423-f81102c12060.png">

## Send a GraphQL request

Send a GraphQL method request in a Document or Collection. The following instructions
assume you're starting with an empty Document or Collection.

1. In a Document, select the **Debug** tab, then **New Request**. In a Collection, select **New Request**.
1. In the **New Request** modal:
   1. Enter a request name.
   1. Select **POST** from the dropdown.
   1. Another dropdown will appear to the right. Open it and select **GraphQL Query**.
   1. Click **Create**.
1. Enter the API URL in the request URL input.
1. In the GraphQL body tab, add you GraphQL schema.
1. To add authentication, go to the **Auth** tab. Use the **Auth** dropdown to select your authentication method.
1. When you have entered your request URL and authentication, click **Send**.

See [Request Options](#request-options) to customize your request.

## Request Options

Modify any HTTP method or GraphQL request with the following options.

{:.table .table-striped}
Option | Description
------ | ------------

> Body | Select a body type from the Body dropdown menu on the tab. Add content that you want to send in the body of the request.

Reviewer 2: This part of the table is a bit confusing. Why do we write 2 sentences for the descriptions of the `Body` row and the `Auth` row?

Author: I always lean towards being explicit, and sometimes that means it takes 2 sentences to explain something. Let me know what you think is confusing so I can clarify or edit what's here!

Reviewer 2: @falondarville ignore my last comment, I re-read those, and I now see what was the intent. My initial confusion was due to the sentences seeming very similar, and I thought maybe the repetition was not intended, but I can see now what was trying to be achieved, and that they are not the same.

> Auth | Select an authentication type from the Auth dropdown menu on the tab. The authentication for the request.

Reviewer: Is "The authentication for the request" extra or intentional?

Author: The first part of the description explains how to interact with the dropdown. The second part, "The authentication for the request", explains the option.
